#Computer #Networks 
Early networking devices do not use interconnecting devices and the cable length is severely limited due to [[21.024 Signal Attenuation |signal attenuation]]. 
Such problems can be resolved using devices like repeaters.
Connects computers to form a [[21.019 LAN|LAN]].

A repeater/hub receives signals in bits ([[21.010 Bits and Bytes#Binary|binary]]) generated by [[10.006 Fundamentals of Network Communication#NIC Basics|NICs]] and other networking devices
It **strengthens** them and then "repeats" them to other parts of the network.
- This allows the repeater to connect computers whose distance from one another is very far.

The Hub neither breaks a [[21.031 Broadcast and Collision Domains#Collision Domain|collision domain]] nor does it break a [[21.031 Broadcast and Collision Domains#Broadcast Domain|broadcast domain]]. 
All devices connected to the hub are in a SINGLE collision domain and SINGLE broadcast domain.
Recall that hubs do not segment a network but rather connect network segments.
# Ports

Traditional repeaters have two ports or connections that can be used to extend your network.

Multiport Repeaters aka Hubs are repeaters that contain several ports to which cables can be connected.
- Receives bit signals generated from a connected computer's NIC on one of its ports.
- Cleans the signal, regenerating it back to full strength, and transmits this signal to ==all other ports== where a computer is connected to.
- Forwards broadcast frames, creating a single large collision domain and single broadcast domain.

In a Hub, a [[21.025 Frames and Packets|frame]] is passed along or "broadcasted" to every one of its ports.
The hub sends it to every port connected to a computer, which ensures that the frame reaches its destination.
However, this can lead to a lot of traffic on the network and thus lead to poor speeds.
Thus, hubs are not intelligent and are rather slow, not to mention bad for security.

# Bandwidth
The entire bandwidth of the hub is shared (split) by all devices connected to the hub.
E.g. If hub is 100Mbps (see more about [[21.017 Bandwidth|bandwidth]]) and 10 devices are connected, each device gets 100/10 Mbps of bandwidth, equivalent to 10 Mbps.

### Half-Duplex Mode
Hubs can only operate in half-duplex mode, where data and sent and received one at a time and not simultaneously.