#Computer #Networks 
Looks similar to a [[13.001 Network Repeaters and Hubs|hub]], but actually reads the data in the message and determines which port the destination device is connected to and forwards the message to only that port.

Connects computers to form a [[21.019 LAN|LAN]].
Utilises [[21.029 MAC Address|MAC Addresses]], forwarding [[21.025 Frames and Packets#Frame|frames]] based on the destination MAC address to the port where the computer is found
Switches broadcast [[21.025 Frames and Packets|frames]] and create multiple collision domains but only a single broadcast domain.
# Basic Switch Operation
Below is how a switch works:
- Data is sent onto the medium one frame at a time, and the switch receives this frame.
- Each frame has the destination and source [[10.006 Fundamentals of Network Communication#MAC Address|MAC Address]], read by the switch.
- The switch looks up the destination MAC address in its switching table.
- The switch then forwards the frame to the port at which the computer with the destination MAC address is connected.
- The switching table is then updated with the source MAC address and port information.

# Switching Table
A switching table is utilised by the switch to identify what port computers are connected to through their respective MAC addresses.

Example:

| MAC Address | Port No. |
| ----------- | -------- |
| AA:A1       | 6        |
| BB:B1       | 1        |
| CC:C1       | 2        |
| DD:D1       | 3        |
Based on this table, the switch will then know where to send signals to, making it an intelligent network device.
The switch is also good for security measures as it ensures data is not sent to anywhere else except for the destination.
There is no unnecessary traffic either, as the switch does not broadcast to all ports.

# Network Bandwidth of Switches
Each port gets a dedicated bandwidth, instead of sharing bandwidth with all ports like a [[13.001 Network Repeaters and Hubs|hub]].
If a switch gets a dedicated [[21.017 Bandwidth|bandwidth]] of 100 Mbps, then all devices get 100 Mbps.
Hence, **multiple conversations** can occur simulatneously.

### Full-duplex and Half-duplex mode
Full-duplex mode:
- Switches can send AND receive data simultaneously
Half-duplex mode:
- Switches can send OR receive data at one time.

# Switch Indicator Lights
A switch will have link status indicators, activity indicators, and might have indicators for whether the switch is in full-duplex or half-duplex mode.

### Link Status Indicators

### Activity Indicators