- DHCP
- NAT
- Switch
- Wireless LAN
- Firewall

A Wifi-Router creates an [[21.020 Internetworks|internetwork]], connecting multiple [[21.019 LAN|LANs]] together by forwarding packets from one LAN to another.
It sends and receives [[21.025 Frames and Packets|packets]] across the [[12.004 Internet, Intranet, Extranet|internet]].

A Wifi-Router is assigned an [[21.023 IP Addresses#Router / Gateway IP Address|IP address]] that is need to connect to the internet. This is known as the gateway/router IP address.

A router creates multiple broadcast domains. (hence it doesnt forward broadcasts)
- A router breaks collision AND broadcast domains, making it both a collision and broadcast domain seperator.
- A broadcast message from one network will never reach the other one because the router will never let it pass.

Routers work with [[21.023 IP Addresses|IP Addresses]] (unlike [[13.002 Network Switches|switches]] which work with [[21.029 MAC Address|MAC addresses]])
Routers work with [[21.025 Frames and Packets#Packets|packets]] while switches work with [[21.025 Frames and Packets#Frame|frames]] 

Routers work with routing tables.

# Connecting LANs
When computers are added to LANs, the effective communication can suffer.
- Broadcast traffic is forwarded to all members of a LAN, causing the network to be congested.
- Computers are connected to one LAN through the use of switches, and as a result all broadcast traffic can be heard by all devices.

A better solution to this, would be to use a router instead to link multiple LANs together.
- This can facilitate more effective communication within LANs and between LANs


# Wifi Bands
Routers can have different [[21.019 LAN#Wireless LAN Standards|bands]], or dual bands, known as 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz.

### 2.4 GHz
The most common band, it is also used by other devices such as microwaves, and telephones, which makes the wifi vulnerable to interference from these devices.

This band has a slower speed but longer range.
Can penetrate solid objects better as it is low frequency.

### 5 GHz
This band is less common, and thus has lesser interference.

This band has faster speed, but a smaller range.
High frequencies as such have a hard time penetrating walls, which is a weakness on its end.