---
tags:
  - Computer
  - Linux
---
# Whats in Linux?
### Bootloader
The software managing the boot process of your computer.
- Usually a splash screen that pops up and eventually goes way to boot into the operating system.
### Kernel
The kernel is the core of the system, managing the [[10.002 Components of a Computer|CPU]] , memory, and peripeherals.
### Daemons
Background services that start up during boot or after logging in to the desktop
### The Shell
The Linux command line. Allows you to control the computer through commamnds typed into the text interface known as the CLI.
Sort of like the interface to the Kernel.
### Graphical Server
The sub-system displaying the graphics on monitors. Also referred to as the X server, or simply "X".
### Desktop Environment
This is what users actually interact with.
The desktop introduces the GUI (Graphical User Interface); without it Linux can only be used through the command line. 
There are many desktop environments to choose from:
- Unity
- GNOME
- Cinnamon
- Enlightenment
- KDE
- XFCE
Every desktop environment includes built-in applications, such as file managers, configuration tools, web browsers and games, etc.

# Linux Distributions:
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) - commercial support by subscription
	- Good for enterprises that need security and support
- Fedora (Red Hat sponsored and community-basd open source)
- Ubuntu
	- used to host websites in the cloud, tuned towards web hosting
- KALI
	- used for ethical hacking, etc
- Scientific Linux
- CentOS
- Andrioid
	- yes its a distribution