#Networks #Computer 
Internet protocol addresses allow us to access the [[12.004 Internet, Intranet, Extranet#Internet|internet]]. 
IP Addresses are 32-bits long, and expressed in decimal dot notation. (e.g. 192.168.1.55)
It is a logical address and changes when your computer connects to a different network.

# Public IP Address
Public IPs have the primary purpose of connecting to the internet.
They are assigned to devices on [[21.019 LAN|LANs]], like [[13.004 Wi-Fi Router|routers]], by an internet service provider (ISP).

When browsing the internet, your public IP is the address that is visible. Hence, public IPs are also known as external IP addresses.
When users want to hide their IP address or keep their IP private, they should cover their public IP and not their private one.

# Private IP Address
A private IP address is an address provided by network devices used only in an [[12.004 Internet, Intranet, Extranet#Intranet|internal network]].
These IP addresses do not connect to the internet on their own, but instead to the home network.
This home network has an IP address that connects to the rest of the internet.

Routers assign each private IP within the [[21.019 LAN|LAN]]. It is possible for two devices on two seperate networks to have the same private IP, but no two devices on the same network can share the same private IP.

Private IP addresses: 
- 192.168.0.x to 192.168.255.x (where x is host)
- 172.16.x.x to 172.31.x.x
- 10.x.x.x
These addresses are not allowed on the [[12.004 Internet, Intranet, Extranet|Internet]]. To connect these private networks to the internet, we need a router capable of performing [[20.005 NAT|NAT]].
This is because a private IP address cannot be routed onto the internet.

### Router / Gateway IP Address
This IP address is the private IP address assigned to the router

# Power of Two
Both public and private IP addresses work together, as they are needed for the Internet to know which computer to send the information requested to (and not someone else's who is on the same network too.)
Between the public and private IPs of your computer, stands the [[13.004 Wi-Fi Router|router]]. 
The router has assigned an internal IP address to your computer, and receives an external IP address from your Internet Service Provider (ISP). The external IP address identifies your computer to the Internet.

Two computers in the same network will have the same public IP, but will each have different private IPs.

# localhost
It is the same as doing 127.0.0.1, as this IP address is mapped to the name 'localhost'

# Reserved IP Addresses
e.g. 192.168.1.0 is subnet mask
e.g. 192.168.1.255 is broadcast IP
Hence total usable hosts = 256 - 2 = 255