#CSS #WebDev #Design #Syntax 
A list of all (most) CSS properties 

# Font Properties

### Font Size
To set text size, we use the `font-size` property
Syntax:
`font-size: size;`
Where `size` is a CSS unit of length in either [[11.011 Relative Units|relative]] or [[11.010 Absolute Units|absolute]] units.

Text is made scalable with all font sizes expressed relative to default font sizes.

Font sizes are expressed using the following keywords:
- xx-small
- x-small
- small
- medium
- large
- x-large
- xx-large
- larger
- smaller

### Font Style
To specify font style, use the `font-style` property.
Syntax:
`font-style: type;`
Where `type` is *normal*, *italic* or *oblique* 

### Font Weight
To change the weight of the font, use the `font-weight` property
Syntax:
`font-weight: weight;`
Where `weight` is the level of **bold** formatting applied to the text.

### Text Decoration
To change the text decoration, use the `text-decoration` property
Syntax:
`text-decoration: type;`
Where `type` is *none*, *underline*, *overline*, or *line-through*

### Text Transform
To transform text, use the `text-transform` property
Syntax:
`text-decoration: type;`
Where `type` is *capitalize*, *uppercase*, *lowercase* or *none*.

### Font Variant
To display a font variant of text, use the `font-variant` property.
Syntax:
`font-variation: type;`
Where `type` is *normal* or *small-caps*.

### Font Family
To specify a prioritised list of one or more font family names for the selected element.
Syntax:
`font-family: font1, font2, font3;`
Values are seperated by commas to indicate that they are alternatives.
The browser selects the first [[11.008 Font Stack|font]] in the list that is installed (i.e. the rest are backups).

### Combining the font properties
The text and font styles can be combined using the following shorthand font property:
`font: style variant weight size/height family`
Where `style`, `variant`, `weight`, `size`, `height`, and `family` refer to the above font properties in CSS. (`height` is `line-height`).

---
# Aligning Text

### Horizontal Alignment
To horizontally align the text, use the `text-align` property
Syntax:
`text-align: alignment;`
Where `alignment` is *left*, *right*, *center* or *justify*.

### Vertical Alignment
To vertically align the text, use the `vertical-align` property
Syntax:
`vertical-align: alignment;`
Where `alignment` is:
*baseline*
- Aligns baseline of the [[13.004 HTML Element Tags|element]] with the baseline of the [[11.006 Inheritance#Parent|parent]] element
*bottom*
- Aligns bottom of the element with bottom of the lowest element in the line.
*middle*
- Aligns the middle of the element with the middle of the surrounding content in the line.
*sub*
- Subscripts the element
*super*
- Superscripts the element
*text-bottom*
- Aligns the bottom of the element with the bottom of the text in the line
*text-top*
- Aligns the top of the element with the top of the text in the line
*top*
- Aligns the top of the element with the top of the tallest object in the line.

---
# Spacing and Indentation
Properties to control an [[13.004 HTML Element Tags|element's]] [[11.012 Kerning, Tracking and Leading|kerning, tracking and leading]] are:
- `letter-spacing: value;`
- `word-spacing: value;`
- `line-height: value;`
Indentation is set as follows:
- `text-indent: value;`
- A negative indentation value creates a hanging indent.

# List Properties
These properties apply to list items `li` for unordered `ul` and ordered `ol` [[13.004 HTML Element Tags#List Elements|lists]]

### List Style
To change the appearance of the list marker