#WebDev #CSS #Syntax 

The appearance of a page is determined by a style sheet written in the CSS language.
CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets.

The latest version of CSS is built upon several modules, each of which focuses on a different design topic.

# Types of Style Sheets

### Browser styles
A built-in style in the browser

### User-defined styles
Styles defined by a user based on their configuration in the browser

### External styles
Styles created by a website author and placed within a CSS file.
[[13.004 HTML Element Tags#Link Elements|Linked]] to the website's [[11X.001 HTML|HTML]] document.

### Embedded styles
Styles added to the [[13.001 HTML 5 Document Structure#The head element|head]] element of a HTML document.

Uses the `<style>` element inside the document head (as mentioned above):
```css
<style>
	put styles here
</style>
```

### Inline styles
Styles added as element [[13.007 HTML Attributes|attributes]] within a HTML document
Only applied to that particular [[13.004 HTML Element Tags|element]].

These styles are applied directly to an element:
```html
<div style="property: value;">content here</div>
```

# Syntax
Generally, CSS syntax is as follows:

```css
selector {
	property1: value1;
	property2: value2;
	... /*comment*/
}
```
### Selector
Denoted by `selector` in the above example, the `selector` identifies an element or a group of elements using their [[13.007 HTML Attributes#class|class attribute]]

There are many [[13.015 CSS Selector Patterns|selector patterns]] in CSS.

### Property
These properties come in `property: value` pairs.
They specify the style properties (duh) and their values that are applied to the element(s).

### Comments
Use `/* comment */` to comment, or simply `//comment` (works in vscode)

There will be a lot more syntax to learn; for a start go to this: [[13.012 CSS at-rules]].
Here are the [[13.018 CSS Properties|CSS properties]].
# Specificity and Precedence
Specificity is an issue when two or more styles **conflict**.
If both styles have equal specificity and equal importance, the one defined last has precedence.

The more specific style rule has precedence over the general style rule.

# Style Inheritance
A process in which [[13.008 Enter CSS#Property|properties]] are passed from a parent [[13.004 HTML Element Tags|element]] to its children
An example of inheritance:

```css
div {
	color: white;
}
```
```html
<div>
	<p>This is text</p>
</div>
```
In the above example, the `div` element is given a `property: value` pair that changes the text colour to white.
The `p` element inside the `div` inherits this property as it nested inside.

# Progressive Enhancement
A technique of placing code conforming to elder standards before newer properties
Ensures support for older browsers
Allows newer standards to be used by browsers that support them