www-data is a system user that is run by the system to run the [[15.006 Apache Stuff|Apache web server]] 

User accounts help to keep files seperate from each other, as well as services
- services include apache, mySQL, 

# User details
Every user has a username and a UID (user ID)
- Users are in the `/etc/passwd` file
- Stored in the format: 
	- `username:encrypted-password:uid:pri-group-uid:user-desc:home-directory:login-shell`
	- E.g. `madonna:x:504:504:Music User:/home/madonna:/bin/bash`
### Username
Name of the user

### UID / Primary Group UID
A unique number given to the user / group.

### Encrypted Password
User's password used  to be stored in `/etc/passwd` (seen above)
However, now, it is stored in a shadow file known as `/etc/shadow`, which is a system file that stores encrypted user passwords.
Shadow file can only be accessed by the root user or anyone with sudo priviledges.

Note that chpt 1 of the manual for `passwd` is the passwd command, while chpt 5 is the passwd file
- `man 5 passwd`
### Getting user information

The `id` command:
- displays user and group info
- `whoami` only shows current username

The `finger` command:
- Reports when users last logged in
- Uses the `.plan` file
- There is a need to install the "finger client" package.
- Shows details of the user's history.


# Types of users
There are 3 classes of users:

### Normal Users
- Usually has `/bin/bash` as the login shell and a home directory within `/home`
- Can only create files in their home directory and temporary directories like `/tmp` and `/var/tmp`
- UID equal or greater to 500 in RHEL

### Root User
Has a uid of 0.
Aka the superuser, with permission to do everything.
Home directory is /root

### System Users
- Runs specific processes required for Linux system to function
- Usually do not have login shells.
- Home directories are usually system directories.
- UIDs range from 1 to 499.

# Creating a User

The `adduser` command:
- Easier to use
- E.g. `sudo adduser john`
- System will automatically create home directories and create the group for the user
- System will guide you through the creation process.

The `useradd` command:
- Remember to use `sudo`
- `-m -d /home/<username>` creates a home directory for user
- `-p <encrypted-passwd>` sets a password for the user
- `-s /bin/bash` adds a shell to the user. Default is `/bin/sh`, if not specified during user creation
- `<username>` gives the user a username
- E.g. `sudo useradd -m -d /home/john -p john123 john`
- When a user is added, a group with the corresponding username is created and assigned to the user, unless specified otherwise.

The `passwd` command:
- Remember to use sudo
- Sets a new password for the specified user
- E.g. `sudo passwd john`

The `usermod` command:
- Modifies users.
- `-n <new-name>` modifies the name

The `userdel` command:
- Deletes users
- E.g. `sudo userdel john` 
- `-r` will remove everything related to the user (home directory included)
- Check whether user is deleted through `ls -l /home` to check the number of home directories. If user's isn't there, the user is deleted.
