An instruction specifices an operation, as well as the locations of its data operands
- Load (Operation) | R1, A (Operands)

A 32-bit [[21.010 Bits and Bytes#Word|word]] usually holds 1 encoded instruction.

# Instruction Types

### Load
Reads a data operand from [[10.009 Functional Units#Primary Memory|memory]] or an [[10.002 Components of a Computer#Input Components|input device]] into the [[10.009 Functional Units#Processor|processor]]

### Store
Writes a data operand from a [[10.009 Functional Units#Processor#Registers|processor register]] to [[10.009 Functional Units#Primary Memory|memory]] or an [[10.002 Components of a Computer#Output Components|output device]].

### Operate
Performs an arithmetic or logic operation on data operands in the processor registers.

---
# Programs
A program constitutes of a sequence of instructions which are executed one after the other.
Both the program and its data are stored in the [[10.009 Functional Units#Primary Memory|main memory]].

An example program:
A, B, and C are labels for memory word addresses, where Ri represents [[10.009 Functional Units#Processor#Registers|processor registers]].

C = A + B can be represented as:

| Instruction | Operands   | Explanation                                             |
| ----------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| Load        | R2, A      | R2 <- A                                                 |
| Load        | R3, B      | R3 <- B                                                 |
| Add         | R4, R2, R3 | Adds values from R2 and R3 which were previously loaded |
| Store       | R4, C      | R4 -> C                                                 |

^fc8c36

### Handling I/O Devices
A program can also:
- Read data from an input device (e.g. keyboard)
- Write data to an output device (e.g. monitor)
- Sense readiness of an input/output device to perform a transfer
---
# Fetching and Executing Instructions
E.g. Load R2, LOC (line of code)
The [[10.009 Functional Units#Control Units|control units]] will do the following:
- Sends address in [[21.012 Program Counter Register|program counter (PC) register]] to [[10.009 Functional Units#Primary Memory|memory]], issue Read phase
- Load instruction from memory into [[21.013 Instruction Register|instruction register (IR)]] 
- Increment program counter count to point to next instruction
- Send the address of LOC to memory; issue Read phase
- Load [[21.010 Bits and Bytes#Word|word]] from memory into register R2.

# Instruction Cycle
Is able to repeat basic operations billions of times per second.

Known as the single cycle of operation.
Consists of 5 phases:
- Fetch ^a50288
- Decode
- Execute
- Memory Access
- Write Back

https://youtu.be/ccf9ngGIb8c?si=RDxeo3WkkZ99M2Av
The following notes are adapted from this video above.

| Memory Address | Instructions        |
| -------------- | ------------------- |
| 0009H          | Instruction 5 (2/2) |
| 0008H          | Instruction 5 (1/2) |
| 0007H          | Instruction 4 (1/2) |
| 0006H          | Instruction 4 (1/2) |
| 0005H          | Instruction 3 (1/1) |
| 0004H          | Instruction 2 (3/3) |
| 0003H          | Instruction 2 (2/3) |
| 0002H          | Instruction 2 (1/3) |
| 0001H          | Instruction 1 (2/2) |
| 0000H          | Instruction 1 (1/2) |
Above represents the program's memory

The longer the instruction, the more memory addresses it may take up.

| Program Counter | Instruction Register |
| --------------- | -------------------- |
| 0000            |                      |
The above table represents the CPU, with the [[21.012 Program Counter Register|PC register]] and the [[21.013 Instruction Register|instruction register]] at their initial state.

### Fetch
The instruction is fetched from the program memory address, indicated by the program counter
- 0000 will mean "0000H" memory address.
The instruction located in memory address "0000H" is fetched due to the program counter being 0000, hence:

| Program Counter | Instruction Register |
| --------------- | -------------------- |
| 0001            | Instruction 1 (1/2)  |
"Instruction 1 (1/2)" is fetched and placed in the instruction register.
At the same time, program counter is incremented by 1.

### Decoding
CPU decodes instruction and realises only half the instruction has been loaded.
CPU is unable to execute the incomplete instruction, hence it returns to the fetch phase.

| Program Counter | Instruction Register |
| --------------- | -------------------- |
| 0002            | Instruction 1 (2/2)  |
The instruction in the IR is now complete.
### Execute
The CPU now executes the instruction (see [[10.010 Instructions and Programs#^fc8c36|here]])
After execution, CPU is ready to enter fetch phase again.

If instruction requires an input, the input data is received and stored in the [[21.015 Accumulator|accumulator]].

### Jump
If, during execution, an instruction requires a jump to an instruction in another memory address, CPU will change value in PC register to match the memory address of the other instruction
- E.g. PC register: 0005 -> 0008 since other instruction is at 0008H
The CPU now fetches the instruction at 0008H, decodes it, and executes it when applicable.

### Simulation
https://peterhigginson.co.uk/LMC/?F5=23-Apr-24_02:41:13
Use the above simulation to understand this better.