#Computer
## Input Components
These components are used to get [[10.001 Basic Function of Computers#Input|input]] from external devices
Examples include:
- Keyboards, microphones, webcams
- Storage devices: hard disks and CDs/DVDs
---
## Processing Components
The #CPU is a computer's main [[10.001 Basic Function of Computers#Processing|processing]] component. which executes instructions from computer programs (word processors, [[21.005 Operating Systems|operating systems]])
It is comprised of 2 or more processors called [[21.002 Cores|cores]].
- Multicore CPUs can carry out multiple tasks simultaneously, increasing overall performance.
The CPU handles multiple tasks/events by using the 2 methods: [[10.004 IO Polling & Interrupt|Polling & Interrupt]]
---
## Output Components
Examples:
- Monitors, printers
- Network cards
- Speakers

---
## Storage Components
### RAM
Stands for Random-Access Memory
Contains DIMMs with 168-244 pins, with a 64-bit [[21.004 Data Paths|data path]]
[[21.003 Volatility|Volatile]] (short-term) storage for temporary files.

How RAM works:
- Data is first stored in hard drive
- Data is then loaded into the RAM on the computer when the CPU requires it.
- If there is insufficient RAM, the computer will make use of the [[21.001 Virtual Memory|virtual memory]] in the disk space
- When PC is shut off, all of the RAM's files are gone

Types of RAM:
- DRAM (Dynamic RAM) -> contains capacitors that need to be refreshed constantly (power intensive)
	- Runs Async with system clock
- SDRAM (Synchronous Dynamic RAM)
	- Runs synchronously with system clock

PC-100 RAM refers to the speed in MHz in which the RAM operates (100 MHz)
RAM is linked to the CPU via [[10.003 Buses|buses]]

RAM has no moving parts, hence accessing data in RAM is much faster than a hard drive.
Usually, the more RAM a computer has, the faster it will run.
### Hard Drives
[[21.003 Volatility|Non-Volatile]] (long-term) disks for permanent primary storage
Maintains its data even when there's no power
Examples:
- CDs, DVDs

How a HDD works:
Consists of "platters" which are magnetic disks that store data in the form of magnetic pulses
- Magnetic pulses cause positive/negative charges, which act like binary
- Disks have multiple tracks and in those tracks there are multiple sectors.
	- E.g. File A: Track 9: Sector 20-23 
- Can cache files into CPU, sends file allocation tables to RAM when needed. 
Stores documents as well as applications
Stores the [[21.005 Operating Systems|OS]] of computer that loads when it boots

Most modern Hard Drives have multiple disks

### Solid State Drives (SSDs)
SSDs are used in place of hard drives due to their **speed and reliability**
This is because SSDs use [[21.006 Flash Memory|flash memory]], without any moving parts.
However, they are usually more expensive than hard drives, and have ==limited== read/write operations.
Most commonly found in mobile devices, high-performance desktops and **servers**

## HDDs vs SSDs

|            | HDD                                                              | SSD                                                                                     |
| ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Speed      | Slower, higher latency, supports fewer I/O operations per second | Faster, lower latency, reads/writes faster. However, has limited read/write operations. |
| Components |                                                                  |                                                                                         |


---
## Motherboard
### CPU Socket
The CPU is installed in this socket.

### PCI bus expansion slot
Adds functionality to a PC by adding expansion cards with a PCI connector (Peripheral Component Interconnect)

### PCI-Express Expansion Slots
Better than PCI bus expansion slot - enables faster data transfer speeds
Suitable for high-performance expansion cards

### RAM slots 
Slots for installing [[10.002 Components of a Computer#Ram|RAM]].

### Chipset with heat sinks
Chipset contains two chips: The Northbridge and the Southbridge
Both control data transfer between memory, expansion slots, I/O devices and CPU (See also: [[10.003 Buses]])
The heat sink lies above the chipset to prevent overheating.

### SATA connectors
Used for connecting [[10.002 Components of a Computer#Hard Drives|hard drive]] and CD/DVD drives that use the SATA (Serial AT Attachment) specification

### IDE Connector
Used for connecting IDE (Integrated Drive Electronics) hard drives and CD/DVD-ROM drives. Most systems, however, use SATA for hard drives nowadays.

!! Extra !!
Hard Drive -> SATA 
CD/DVD -> IDE
But either is fine; this is the new standard now

### Main Power Connector
Where the motherboard receives power from the PSU