#Computer 

# Primary Memory
aka Main Memory

Organised into [[21.010 Bits and Bytes#Word|words]] of typically 32 [[21.010 Bits and Bytes|bits]], which contains 4 8-bit [[21.010 Bits and Bytes|bytes]] (4 * 8)
(remember: a byte is made up of 8 bits)
A PC's memory may have 4 gigabytes (GB) or more.
Programs and their data must first be loaded into this memory before being executed by the CPU (sound familiar? see: [[10.002 Components of a Computer#RAM|RAM]])

# Cache Memory
Adjunct to the main memory; fabricated on the processor chip itself.
Smaller but faster than main memory (recall: it uses [[10.002 Components of a Computer#^c0dd9a|SRAM]] and not [[10.002 Components of a Computer#^998650|DRAM]])
Holds sections of the program and data frequently being executed
See more: [[21.007 Cache Memory]]

# Processor
Note: the CPU may not be the only processor in a computer, but these 2 terms are used interchangeably.

A processor contains:
- ALU (Arithmetic and Logic Unit) is where most computer operations are executed.
	- Logical circuits for performing arithmetic and logical operations on [[21.010 Bits and Bytes#Word|word-sized]] data operands.
	- Arithmetic Operations:
		- A = 10 + 30
		- B = 100 * A
	- Logic Operations:
		- `if (hour < 10 || hour > 18) {alert('The office is closed.')}`
- Timing and control circuits for fetching program instructions/data from the [[21.007 Cache Memory|memory]], one after another (you'll see why later).
- Registers (usually 16 or 32 of them), each of which hold one [[21.010 Bits and Bytes#Word|word]] of operand data.

The memory, ALU and I/O units store and process information, performing I/O operations.
The **control units** coordinate these operations such that they run one after another.

### Registers
Used to store temporary data during computation
A, B, C are variable with memory addresses holding numeric values
E.g. for Arithmetic operation of adding 2 numbers: C = A+B (C = 20 + 10)
- First, load R1 (Register 1) with the value in A
- Next, add second numeric value in B to R1 (Add R1, B)
- Store the value calculated in R1 inside C.
- C now holds the value 30

| Variable | Memory Address (e.g.) | Value |
| -------- | --------------------- | ----- |
| C        | 4                     | 30    |
| B        | 3                     | 20    |
| A        | 2                     | 10    |
|          |                       |       |
